Welcome in this video.
We are going to be implementing our client interpellation as you can see here the simulated proxy is
moving by linear interpolation you can tell it's linear by the fact that he occasionally changes direction
quite harshly.
But this is the first step towards doing nice type of interpolation.
So with a big success and let's dive into the video and see how we can achieve this.
Okay so this is where we left off the project before the last lecture I'm sure you all remember at this
stage that we have our authority and you've got out on this proxy.
And if we move the authority around then we get all this glitching basically because it is trying to
interpolate using the last known control throws.
But that's just not enough is it.
When you've got one second between the delays you end up doing lots of jumping around so we want to
implement our own interpellation.
But before we do that we want to make sure we are in full control of where that client is.
We don't want it to be updated directly by the server at all so we need to make sure that we are have
Movent replication switched off entirely and one way we can easily check it is by going to the content
browser and then going to your crazy cart folder and opening up the BP go cart and with the BP go cart.
We should be able to see whether there is movement replications which Don's if go to add details and
look for movement there you can see that weve got replicate movement ticked and in fact it's not even
showing a little yellow arrow because we have got replicate movement switched on in our C++.
So thats the first thing to fix.
Let's go over into visuals to go find our go kart DCP.
Open that up and then in our constructer just underneath where we have be replicates we can go to be
replicates movement I believe it is.
Its just check replicate I think movement.
There it is replicate movement equals false.
We do not want it replicating movement as go ahead and build that.
And what we should see.
It wont update the blueprint and thats one of the problems with blueprints is that it caches all those
property stores but it will give us a different default which means that when we look in the blue print
will see the yellow arrow telling us that it is set something that is not default.
And that is a successful build.
So lets go over in to the unreel editor and now you can see yes they will get the yellow arrow telling
us to reset this the default which we will which is not replicating movement.
So I can save that compile it whatever I want to do and hopefully if we go ahead and play.
Im not sure whether the position is going to update at all now in our server it depends whether we have
told it to update the position doesn't it.
So let's just check it out.
If it doesn't then it's going to be very very obvious that we what we've done has worked and we're going
to be looking at the pseudocode.
Okay.
So it is still updating position that's probably because our code updates it somewhere else manually.
Great.
That's fine.
So next up we want to deal with these time variables that we created in our pseudocode.
Remember that I told you in the last lecture that there was some updating that we had to do to them
but we haven't written it into the pseudocode here at least I haven't written into that silicone.
You may have done so.
Here we've got two variables to do with time the time since update and the time between last updates.
Those are the two variables we're going to want to store on our client so let's go ahead and create
some member variables for that.
I'm going to go to the go kart.
Dot H I open that up and then Im going to not the go cart I'm sorry.
We want to do this in the movement replicator.
So were going to the moon replicator dot H which is the new class that we have created in the last couple
of lectures.
And down here Betsy was a good place for it.
I'm going to put it underneath the unacknowledged mousse and I'm going to use the prefix client for
the stuff that we're doing because of client interpellation.
So these two variables to do with time we usually use floats for time and I'm going to prefix it with
cline's as I've said.
And then the two are just call time since update.
It's going to be the first variable and the second one is going to be time between last updates.
So client.
Time Between last.
Updates like so.
Okay.
So we've got time to last updates.
We've got time since update.
Let's go ahead and see how we can implement those.
So I'm going to go into the replicator C++ and see where is the logical place where we've got a tick
component here.
But at the moment I don't have a lot of space for doing what I want to do.
So I am going to create a function here under simulated proxy to be tic client and I am going to make
that private so I'm going to do.
Basically just underneath our variables our client time since update now actually on second thought
I'm going to do it up near the functions.
So it is going to be a void.
It's going to be called Client tick and it is going to take just like a tick component is going to take
a float delta time.
And that we're going to implement underneath the update server state in the seapass plus file.
So that's just below where we were.
Update service stay and give it the you go cat movement replicator colon colon.
And then that we are going to give it a body that okay doesn't need to return to.
So that's where we're going to implement our stuff and we can call this client tick inside tick.
When the role is simulated proxy so we're going to remove this simulate move.
We don't need to simulate move are going to be doing that differently now.
We're going to be doing that as we are explaining in a pseudo code basically.
So that's client tiggers is going to keep ATIC nice and sensible.
And I am going to go ahead and do something in tick.
What are we going to do.
Well we're going to update that time variable.
So we are going to take that time since update and increment it by the delpha time.
So we're gonna have time since client time since update.
Client time not between updates but since update and it's going to be Plus equal Delta.
Time.
So it's just going to be increasing by that time everything will take very straightforward.
How about these other time variables our time between last update is not set and when does client time
since update ever get reset to zero.
Well that is based on the on ramp.
So that's what we're going to have a look at next.
So here what I actually want to do is split this out into two different functions because one of them
here is dealing with the on rep for the autonomous proxy essentially.
So we're doing all this set at transform and clearing the acknowledged moves which we don't need to
do on the serve we're new two on the autonomous proxy actually.
And in the other case when it is the simulated proxy we need to do something differently.
So what I'm going to do is split this out in two to different functions so let's go to the header file
again and just underneath that.
On rep server state I am going to have two different on reps.
It's going to be first of all void.
Simulated.
Proxy.
Underscore on rep.
Service state and we are going to have another one of these which is going to be the autonomous proxy
on rep service state.
MIKE So I think I spelled that correctly.
So let's go ahead and implement those Sangar copy them go down into the C++ and implement them just
after an hour on rep service state.
And you just get the I call it a class namespace is not really a class namespace it is just the class
specifier.
I'm not entirely sure what it's called.
I call it names based because it has very similar syntax syntax it helps me but if you prefer to call
it something else then by all means do so.
We're going to copy this code that is just for the.
Autonomous proxy.
In fact an exact copy the whole thing cut it out and put it in the on ptolemy's Proxy version.
And then we were going to do in our on rep service state is actually put some if statements in here
so I'm going to do and if first of all we're going to say if I get on a roll is the autonomous proxy.
And then a we are going to go ahead and extra Actually this could be done in a switch statement so let's
do this on a switch statement because people like switch statements I'm not a big fan but that's for
my own reasons.
So let's go and get the owner roll.
That's what we're going to want to switch on.
Like so get on a roll.
And then we are going to have some defaults.
But we are going to have some cases as well and the cases are going to be.
Let's see get autonomous role autonomous proxy is one case.
I don't particularly like switch lanes because of this break syntax I really dislike that breaks in
Texas.
Oh well that's not something you just have to live with.
Cause C++ is quite an old language and it has to retain backwards compatibility.
And then were going had the simulated proxy as well so.
Okay.
So what we're going to do here is in each of these cases we're going to call the appropriate function.
So in the autonomous proxy surprise surprise we call the autonomous proxy server state on rep.
And in the simulator proxy we call the simulated proxy on.
On rep.
Okay.
So we've got two functions that separates things out a little bit and also keeps things nice and clean.
If you read any stuff by Uncle Bob he says that switch they should pretty much be the only thing inside
a function.
You have a switch statement then it shouldn't do anything else it should call out to the appropriate
functions that do the appropriate thing so keeping our code nice and clean which I'd like.
So now we have to figure out what we're doing with our time variables out was a bit of a long detour
but what we're trying to do with our time variables is the following.
Well first of all we have not said anything to time between last update so let's do client time between
last updates is going to be equal to.
Well currently it's going to be equal to the time since update because we have just had a new update
come in.
We have not yet reset this to zero.
So that is the time between last update so it's going to be the client's time since update is going
to be a time between last update.
Fantastic.
And that's going to stay put until the next server state.
Very straightforward.
Now the client time since update is going to need to be reset to zero because we've just received an
update so there is zero time since the last update.
That seems to make sense to me.
Okay.
So that's fairly straightforward.
We've dealt with our time variables one more thing that we have to do is make sure that we are not in
the first update and so we don't do anything until we've received at least two updates.
And when is it that we will have received two updates.
Well let me show you some somewhere here in the client tick.
We will not have received any update if our clients time between last dates is less which is basically
zero but we dont do.
Equals.
Equals zero.
With floating point numbers because they can sometimes be very small and its not very meaningful to
say equals equals zero.
So we want to make sure that we dont have very small client time between that update to do that.
There is a kind of unreal ish way to do this the client time between last update is less than and then
there is a constant here which always makes me laugh but its called kinda small no all caps with underscores
underscores between it and that is the counterpart there is also a small number which is the same in
the same syntax.
This always makes me laugh but the small number is smaller than the kind of small number so you can
see here when I hover over it the small number is 1 times 10 to the minus 8.
So is quite a small number indeed and the kinda small number is larger but still rather small.
So that is equal to see if I hover over it times 10 to the minus four.
So what does that mean.
It means that weve moved one over four decimal places so this is times ten to the minus one.
This is time ten to the minus two.
This is times 10 to the minus three and its times sent a month.
So that is what kind a small number is.
Its not a point oh oh oh.
One is a very small number but only kind of small.
So I like the name that concept.
Anyway so we're going to return when we have a kinda small number in time between last update because
remember were using it to calculate a Lerp ratio.
If you divide by a really small number then errors start to get really big.
You want to see more about this then.
I have linked to a an article about the issues with maths in floating point.
Its quite a deep subject but basically one thing you should be wary of with floating point numbers is
dividing a large number by a very small number because sometimes it can just blow up hugely more than
it should have done.
And you get massive compounding of errors with floating point numbers.
So that has updated our time interval which means that it is time to talk about f maths Lerp or f maths
coca-cola Lerp.
Now as I mentioned in the last lecture Lerp is fairly straightforward it takes an A and A B so you can
see here in the definition on the documentation we have a in b being a type team which is a template
parameter basically can be of any type that you can do multiplication and subtraction and addition to
and it will be able to calculate what goes in between.
So it's very clever.
You can use it on whatever you like basically and Alpher again is something that you need to be able
to multiply a by.
So this works very well with vectors so it works very well with locations.
So Lerp is fairly straightforward.
You can use it just like we've done in the pseudo code but there is one caveat which is it doesn't necessarily
behave particularly well if Alpha and Beta become very large.
Sorry if a and b become very large numbers.
And for this reason f maths has another function which is called F maths Lerp stable.
And this works much better it does some jiggery pocari.
Again working around these floating point issues with maths he's ugly with maths floating point it can
be very nice can sometimes be error prone because floating point numbers are just a representation of
real numbers.
They're not exactly perfect and so you have to work around that sometimes.
So Lerp stable does those workarounds for you and it does basically the maths in a slightly different
rearrangement.
That means that avoids multiplying by small numbers and things like this and that allows it to be stable
with larger numbers.
So this is the function that I recommend you use.
Most of the time.
So let's go ahead and give you a challenge to implement the pseudo code which member variables are you
missing that's the first thing.
Look at the green variables from the pseudocode and see what you might be missing.
Implement tick.
First of all so you've got a client to go ahead and implement it using that pseudocode.
You got on rep go ahead and implement that using the pseudo code and try and keep it neat as you going.
Okay pause a video and have a go.
Implementing this pseudo code.
Okay welcome back so I am going to have a go at implementing the pseudo code.
I'm going to scroll back to the pseudocode and we'll use this as a reference.
OK so the first thing is the target location.
I'm going to have to go ahead get it get the target locations I'm in client tick after we have done
return if the Update the time between updates is too small we are going to do the following so we are
going to create a target location.
I'm going to use an F vector.
Now this does kind of bore me having to use a factor and time to type all the time I do in my own projects
I prefer to use Auto.
And you can do auto as well but if you are more comfortable with affecter and I know a lot of students
are more comfortable with explicitly typing that type I'm going to be sticking with that.
So there's fxi target location.
It's going to be equal to our surface state.
So the last update that came through essentially dot transform dot get location so as not exactly the
same as in my pseudocode.
But that's the point pseudocode is pseudocode it's not real code it's not meant to run.
It's just meant to get the point across.
So we got our target location what about our Lerp ratio.
Well that's going to be a float and a call at the Lerp ratio like so and it is going to be the client
time.
My int times since updates divided by the client time between last updates which we have checked is
in a sensible range already and accidentally gone and scrolled all the way down there.
Client time between last updates.
Brilliant.
So we got our Lerp ratio we've got at Target location.
What's missing is our start location so we need to go ahead and create a start location.
So I'm going to go up to the DOT H and here near our client time since update client time to been updating
and doing vector which is going to be effect not affection.
I dont know what affection is its going to be.
Client.
Start.
Location.
Like so.
And I am going to go over to the client tick and I'm actually just going to do a quick rename in here.
Current start location so it looks like the pseudo code.
Keep it nice and neat so client start location is equal to the client's stock location.
And then we're going to do a Lerp.
So we're going to get an F and factor out as the result of our Lerp and it is going to be the new location.
So were going to do an F maths.
On colon.
Lerp stable.
So and then we get the A and B.
So we're going from our start location member so it's zero time when the updates just happened.
We should be and astarte location at the one time basically at the time between last updates since the
last update.
We are going to be hopefully at a target location so that is from Start location to target location
then we're going to use Alpha.
He's going to be at Lerp I'll call that rashin.
I want to call it the Lerp ratio.
Okay so that is implementing a pseudo pseudocode almost.
We now need to set the location.
So it's going to be a get owner.
Arrow.
Set actor location.
And that's going to be an new location like set.
Okay so that should be okay for client tick now.
Now we just need to implement the bit for our own rep.
So we go to simulated proxy on rep and after we've reset our client times and so on so forth we need
to set our start location which currently doesn't have any value so it's going to be client start location.
If I can't type.
And that's going to be equal to our Get owner.
Arrow get asked.
Location.
OK so.
Right let's build that and see if it works.
We have one little compile error here with get owner not quite being spelt correctly.
Rebuild.
Okay.
So that build succeeded.
Let's hop in to unreel and see how it works.
So I'm going to hit play.
I'm going to move my authority over to the left and the autonomous box to the right and I'm going to
drive the authority in front of our autonomous proxy.
So obviously the rotation is not coming through yet and that is expected because we have not yet implemented
rotation.
But as you can see here we are smoothly interpolating between positions without and this is the important
thing without any jumping anywhere.
Now it's not that smooth you can see that it reaches points and then it just kind of changes direction
instantly.
So we're going to be improving that too.
But first we're going to look at how we can improve the rotation using a slurp a spherical linear interpolation
and then we're going to move on to making a smoother interpolation here.
So let's move on and see you in the next video.